# NLP-analysis-on-bitcoin-price
Conduct the sentimental analysis for major Bitcoin public news and test its relation with the bitcoin price.

**Aim**

It is believed that the price of cryptocurrencies is affected by the market emotions heavily. The index of market emotions, like Fear and Greed Index, is useful for investment of the cryptocurrencies. Even I know it is hard to predict the prices simply based on the text analytics, I aim to test how efficiency it is to implement the machine learning model to predict the Bitcoin prices by the sentimental analysis results from the Bitcoin news.

**Data Sources and Initial Files**

Ten files, named like ‘bitcoin_XX_proquest.csv’, are my previous project result of getting all the links of news related to bitcoin in the ProQuest.com from 2014 to 2021-04-30, which contains the bitcoin news links, snippet, title, author information, etc. I dealt with them to select links with English Bitcoin news within 2015-01-01 to 2021-04-30 and stored the links in the ‘data.csv’.
The full text data are obtained from the ProQuest.com via web scraping on the links selected and stored in ‘full_data_text.csv’.
The financial data of Bitcoin prices are downloaded from the yahoo finance. It is stored in ‘BTC-USD.csv’, including the daily open, close, high, low prices and the volume of Bitcoin.

**Methodology**

1. The url_selected.py is used to select the English news within the required period from the original ten files, combine them together and store the links in the ‘data.csv’. Additionally, the publication dates of each news are generated by the text information stored in the ‘titleAuthorETC’ or ‘titleAuthorETC 2’ columns in the original ten files.
2. In the webscrape.py, the full text of the major Bitcoin news, from 2015-01-01 to 2021-04-30, are collected via web scraping from the ProQuest.com.
3. In the text_analysis.py, the text data are analyzed via the SentimentIntensityAnalyzer, then multiple sentimental factors are generated, like the scores of positive, negative, neutral and compound. Sum all scores from news within a day to get the daily sentimental factors, which is saved in sense_text (a DateFrame). Additionally, prepossess the bitcoin price data to keep it consistent with the date in sense_text, because there are several days without Bitcoin news sentimental scores. The factors is defined to present the leading or lagging price momentum of one day or three days are also calculated for further machine learning.
Hence, all data are converted to numerical form.
4. Choose Lasso model to do the regression for the sentimental factors with different price factors, for instance, the daily
high price, the daily open price, the lead momentum of price for 3 days, the lead momentum of price for one day, the lag momentum of price for 3 days, and the lag momentum of price for 1 day. After training the models, use score function to see how well these price factors could be predicted by the sentimental factors.
